#Cohomology

If $X$ is affine and $F\in \QCoh(X)$ then $H^i(X,\Fc)=0$ for $i>0$. 
Therefore if we consider a [[Separated]] scheme, we can apply the criterion that implies the isomorphism of [[Čech cohomology]] and [[Sheaf cohomology]] when computing the cohomology of [[Quasi-Coherent sheaves]].

If $X$ is a Noetherian topological space, $H^i(X,\Fc)=0$ for all $i>\dim X$.

From now on we suppose that every scheme is [[Noetherian schemes|Noetherian]].

If $X$ is Noetherian and $\Fc\in \Coh(X)$ we say that $\Fc$ is **generated by global sections** if there exists $\cpa{s_\al}\subseteq H^0(\Fc)$ such that the map $\bigoplus \Oc_X\to \Fc$ they induce is surjective. 
We may only check finite collections of possible generators.


Theorem(Künneth formula) If $X,Y\in \Sch/k$ [[Separated]] and [[Quasi-compact]], $F\in \QCoh(X)$, $G\in \QCoh(Y)$ then $H^p(X\times Y,\pr_1^\ast F\otimes_{\Oc_{X\times Y}}\pr_2^\ast G)=\bigoplus_{i+j=p}H^i(X,F)\otimes_k H^j(Y,G)$.

***
We may consider the cohomology of coherent sheaves on projective schemes over a Noetherian ring. Because of the [[Projection formula]] we may just consider sheaves on projective space, indeed if $i:X\to \Pj^n_k$ is a closed subscheme and $\Fc\in \Coh(X)$ then$$i_\ast\Fc\otimes_{\Oc_{\Pj^n}}\Oc_{\Pj^n}(d)=i_\ast(\Fc\otimes_{\Oc_X}i^\ast\Oc_{\Pj^n}(d))\implies H^p(X,\Fc\otimes i^\ast\Oc(d))=H^p(\Pj^n_k,(i_\ast\Fc)\otimes \Oc(d)))$$so in particular $H^p(X,\Fc)=H^p(\Pj^n_k,i_\ast\Fc)$.

If $X\to \Spec R$ projective, $R$ Noeth. and $\Fc\in \Coh(X)$ then $H^i(X,\Fc)$ is a finite $R$-module.
- By the projection formula WLOG $X=\Pj^n_k$.
- By the [[Theorem A of Serre|theorem A of Serre]] let $d\in \Z$ be such that $\Fc(d)$ is generated by global sections: $\Oc^r\to \Fc(d)\to 0$. Tensoring with $\Oc(-d)$ and filling in with the kernel we get $0\to K\to \Oc(-d)^r\to \Fc\to 0$
- If $\Fc=\Oc(-d)^r$ itself the statement holds (we know it for the [[Twisting sheaves]] and $H^p(\Oc(-d)^r)=H^p(\Oc(d))^r$)
- looking at the end of the long exact sequence we get $H^n(\Oc(-d))^r\to H^n(\Fc)\to H^{n+1}(K)=0$, so $H^n(\Fc)$ is the quotient of a finite module over $R$, therefore it must also be finite.
- Since $\Fc$ was an arbitrary sheaf, the result must also hold for $K$, i.e. $H^n(K)$ is finite over $R$.
-  Proceed like this for lower degree: since $R$ is Noetherian, the **kernel and image submodules of finite modules are finite**. $H^i(\Fc)$ is flanked by $H^i(\Oc(-d))^r$ (always finite) and $H^{i+1}(K)$, which is finite by the previous steps.
The result works for $X\to \Spec R$ proper as well. The proof uses Chow's lemma to reduce to the projective case.

The cohomology groups are finitely generated, so we can define the **Euler characteristic** of  $\Fc\in \Coh(\Pj^n_k)$ as$$\chi(\Fc)=\sum_{i=0}^n\dim_kH^i(\Pj^n_k,\Fc).$$The Euler characteristic is additive on exact sequences of coherent sheaves.
By the Künneth formula we have that the Euler characteristic is multiplicative on products:$$\chi(X\times Y,\pr_1^\ast F\otimes \pr_2^\ast G)=\chi(X,F)\chi(Y,G).$$

Theorem (Serre B / Serre Vanishing) For all $i>0$ we have $H^i(\Pj^n_R,\Fc(d))=0$ for $d\gg0$.
- By [[Theorem A of Serre]] we have that $\Fc(e)$ is generated by global sections for $e\gg0$.
- We get an exact sequence $0\to K\to \Oc(-e)^r \Fc\to 0$ and so other exact sequences $H^i(\Oc(d-e)^r)\to H^i(\Fc(d))\to H^{i+1}(K(d))$ for all $i$.
- If $i=n$ then the last term is $0$ for dimensional reasons and the first is $0$ if $d\geq e$ (cohomology of [[Twisting sheaves]] of positive degree is concentrated in degree $0$)
- Since $\Fc$ is general, up to making $d$ bigger, $H^{n}(K(d))$ is also $0$, so we can proceed like before. 


Using Euler the characteristic of the [[Twisting sheaves]] we can prove the classic theorems:
- [[Bézout's theorem]]
- [[Noether's AF+BG]]

A major tool in the study of coherent sheaves on projective space is the [[Hilbert polynomial]].


