#VectorBundles_and_Divisors #ProjectiveSchemes

Sections $s_0,\cdots, s_n$ of $H^0(X,L)$ define a [[Rational functions|rational map]] to [[Projective space|P^n]]: Let $Z=V(s_0,\cdots, s_n)$ be the closed subscheme where all sections vanish. We get a morphism $X\bs Z\to \Pj^n$ defined as follows:
- Fix $p\in X\bs Z$ and pick $s_i$ such that $s_i(p)\neq 0$ (by construction at least one exists) then we can define $p\mapsto (s_0(p)/s_i(p),\cdots, s_n(p)/s_i(p))\in U_i\subseteq \Pj^n$.
- At the level of sheaves we just send $x_j/x_i$ to $s_j/s_i$ whenever they are defined.

In the case where $X=\Proj B$ and $L=\Oc_X$ then this construction is the one given by [[Proj construction|Proj functorially]].


If $f:X\to \Pj^n_R$ is a morphism then $f^\ast\Oc_{\Pj^n_R}(1)$ is invertible and generated by global sections, $\cpa{f^\sharp(x_i)}_{0\leq i\leq n}$ to be exact. It follows that [[Very ample line bundles]] are generated by global sections.

With the notation $(L,s_0,\cdots, s_n)$ we mean that $L$ is a line bundle and that $s_0,\cdots, s_n\in L(X)$ generate it. We consider the following equivalence relation$$(L,s_0,\cdots, s_n)\sim (L',s_0',\cdots, s_n')\coimplies \exists \vp:L\to L'\text{ iso. s.t. }\forall i,\ \vp(s_i)=s_i'.$$If such an isomorphism exists it is unique.

Theorem: If $X\in \Sch/R$ then we have a correspondence$$\cpa{(L,s_0,\cdots, s_n)}/\sim\ \longleftrightarrow\ \Hom_{\Sch/R}(X,\Pj^n_R)$$   - Set $L=f^\ast\Oc(1)$ and $s_i=f^\sharp(x_i)$ for one direction.
- Set $X_i=X\bs \Supp(\coker(s_i:\Oc_X\to L))$ and note that by construction $\rbar{s_i}_{X_i}$ generates $\rbar L_{X_i}$. This allows us to build a map from $X_i$ to $U_i=\Spec R[x_0/x_i,\cdots, x_n/x_i]$ given by $x_j/x_i\mapsto s_j/s_i$, which is well defined because $s_i$ is invertible on $X_i$ by definition.
- Gluing these together gives a map $X\to \Pj^n_R$.

Using known facts about homogeneous polynomials of a given degree we can use the [[Twisting sheaves]] and this idea to formulate two of the most basic types of projective morphisms:
- The **Veronese embedding** is given by $(\Oc_{\Pj^n}(d),x_0^d,x_0^{d-1}x_1,\cdots, x_n^d)$. The degree is $d^n$
- The **Segre embedding** of $\Pj^m\times\Pj^n$ is given by $(\pr_1^\ast\Oc_{\Pj^m}(1)\otimes_{\Pj^m\times\Pj^n}\pr_2^\ast\Oc_{\Pj^n}(1), \cpa{\pr_1^\ast x_i\otimes \Pr_2^\ast y_j}_{i,j})$. The degree is $\binom{m+n}m$ (we can actually compute the case of $X\times Y$ both with specified degrees).


